---
layout: post
title:  "Settings for better battery on iPhone"
date:   2024-01-05 11:49:39 +0200
categories: jekyll update
author: "Toto"
---

## Introduction
We all know we value our time and our money, so we would like our phones to stay charged forever. Sadly, that's not possible.
But you can change a few settings, play around with them and see what you like the most, what you dislike and you can decide for yourself whether you want to sacrifice a few features for more juice or not.
*Remember: The phone should help you and your life, not become a stress.*

## Low Power Mode

-   How to enable: Go to **Settings > Battery > Low Power Mode** and toggle the switch to the on position.
-   How to disable: Go to **Settings > Battery > Low Power Mode** and toggle the switch to the off position.
-   Affects: When Low Power Mode is enabled, certain features and functions are turned off or reduced in order to extend the battery life of your device. This includes reducing or turning off features such as automatic downloads, background app refresh, and visual effects.
-   Benefits: Low Power Mode can help extend the battery life of your device when you are running low on power or when you need to conserve battery for a specific task.
-   More info: [iOS - Low Power Mode](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT205234)

## Automatic App Updates

-   How to enable: Go to **Settings > App Store > Automatic Downloads** and toggle the switch for "Updates" to the on position.
-   How to disable: Go to **Settings > App Store > Automatic Downloads** and toggle the switch for "Updates" to the off position.
-   Benefits: Turning off automatic app updates can save battery by preventing apps from updating in the background.
-   More info: [iOS - Automatic Downloads](https://support.apple.com/en-gb/HT202180)

## Background App Refresh

-   How to enable: Go to **Settings > General > Background App Refresh** and toggle the switch for the desired app or for all apps to the on position.
-   How to disable: Go to **Settings > General > Background App Refresh** and toggle the switch for the desired app or for all apps to the off position.
-   Benefits: Turning off background app refresh can save battery by preventing apps from refreshing their content in the background.
-   More info: [iOS - Background App Refresh](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201301)

## Location Services

-   How to enable: Go to **Settings > Privacy > Location Services** and toggle the switch for the desired app or for all apps to the on position.
-   How to disable: Go to **Settings > Privacy > Location Services** and toggle the switch for the desired app or for all apps to the off position.
-   Benefits: Turning off location services can save battery by preventing apps from using your device's location in the background.
-   More info: [iOS - Location Services](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT207056)

## Push Email

-   How to enable: Go to **Settings > Accounts & Passwords > Fetch New Data** and toggle the switch for "Push" to the on position.
-   How to disable: Go to **Settings > Accounts & Passwords > Fetch New Data** and toggle the switch for "Push" to the off position.
-   Benefits: Turning off push email and switching to a "fetch" email account can save battery by preventing your device from checking for new emails as frequently.
-   More info: [iOS - Fetch New Data](https://support.apple.com/en-us/HT201400)

## Display Brightness
- The brighter the display, the more power it uses. 
- To save battery, you can adjust the display brightness by going to **Settings > Display & Brightness** and sliding the "Brightness" slider to a lower level. 
- You can also enable "Auto-Brightness" to allow your device to adjust the brightness automatically based on the ambient light in your environment.
- You can also disable True Tone, which can improve a little bit more the battery life.
- More info: [iOS - Brightness](https://support.apple.com/guide/iphone/adjust-screen-brightness-color-balance-iph60ba71065/ios)

## Raise to Wake
- This feature wakes up your device's display when you pick it up or bring it near your face. 
- To save battery, you can turn off Raise to Wake by going to **Settings > Display & Brightness > Raise to Wake** and toggling the switch to the off position.

## Offload Unused Apps
- This can be done either by hand, or by going into **Settings > General > iPhone Storage** and tapping on "Offload Unused Apps".

## Reduce Motion
- This setting reduces the amount of motion used in the user interface of your iOS device. This includes animations, transitions, and other visual effects.
- How to enable: Go to **Settings > Accessibility > Motion** and toggle the switch for "Reduce Motion" to the on position.
- How to disable: Go to **Settings > Accessibility > Motion** and toggle the switch for "Reduce Motion" to the off position.
- Reduced motion can help conserve battery life by reducing the amount of processing power needed to render visual effects.
- Reduce Motion can also be helpful for users with motion sickness or who are sensitive to motion in general.
- More info: [iOS - Reduce Motion](https://support.apple.com/en-il/guide/iphone/iph0b691d3ed/ios)

*By following these steps and adjusting these settings, you can extend the battery life of your iOS device and ensure that it lasts throughout the day.*

## Tips for Maintaining Battery Health *(both Android and iPhone)*

1.  Keep your device charged: It is important to keep your device charged to maintain its battery health. Avoid letting your device's battery drain completely and try to keep it above 20% when possible.
    
2.  Avoid extreme temperatures: Extreme temperatures (too hot or too cold) can affect your device's battery health. Try to keep your device in a temperature range of 0째 to 35째 C (32째 to 95째 F) to ensure optimal battery performance.
    
3.  Use original chargers: Using non-original chargers can cause damage to your device's battery and can reduce its overall lifespan. It is recommended to use the original charger that came with your device or a high-quality third-party charger that is compatible with your device.
    
4.  Avoid overcharging: It is not necessary to keep your device charged to 100% all the time. In fact, leaving your device plugged in for long periods of time can actually reduce its battery health. It is recommended to unplug your device once it reaches a full charge.
    
5.  Use Low Power Mode: Low Power Mode can help extend the battery life of your device by reducing or turning off certain features and functions. To enable Low Power Mode, go to **Settings > Battery > Low Power Mode** and toggle the switch to the on position.
    
6.  Update to the latest software: Keeping your device's software up to date can help improve its overall performance, including battery life. To update your device's software, go to **Settings > General > Software Update** and follow the prompts to install the latest update.

*By following these tips, you can help maintain the health of your device's battery and ensure that it performs optimally.*

**Sources:**
-   [iOS - Charge Your iPhone and iPod](https://support.apple.com/guide/iphone/charge-the-battery-iph63eecc618/ios)
